Filecoin Message Pool Update (#1044)
filecoin-project/specs: content/systems/filecoin_blockchain/message_pool/message_syncer.md

---
title: Message Propagation
weight: 1
dashboardWeight: 2
dashboardState: incomplete
dashboardAudit: 0
dashboardTests: 0
---

# Message Propagation
---

> The message pool has to interface with the libp2p pubsub [GossipSub](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/tree/master/pubsub/gossipsub) protocol. This is because transaction messages are propagated over [GossipSub](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/tree/master/pubsub/gossipsub) _topics_. Every serialised `SignedMessage` is announced (see [Message](message)) in the corresponding topic by any node participating in the network.

Reviewer: `Every serialised `SignedMessage` is announced (see [Message](message)) in the corresponding topic by any node participating in the network.`

There might be too much going on on this sentence. Maybe we can drop the serialization details and the struct name and focus more on the topic (maybe even naming it fully).

Reviewer: (Also, minor detail, mentioning "topics" in plural might be confusing. I get that we're referring to a generic description, but it's a single topic, and using a generic unnamed plural forces later the use of the "corresponding" qualifier that doesn't add much more information because, for example, I don't know if there is a corresponding topic for different types of messages, which is not the case.)

> There are two main pubsub topics related to transaction and block messages: i) the `/fil/msgs/` topic that carries transaction messages and, ii) the `/fil/blocks/` topic that carries block messages. The `/fil/msgs/` topic is linked to the `mpool`. The process is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two main pubsub topics related to transactions and blocks: i) the `/fil/msgs/` topic that carries transactions and, ii) the `/fil/blocks/` topic that carries blocks. The `/fil/msgs/` topic is linked to the `mpool`. The process is as follows:
```
I assume throughout we are talking about Filecoin (not libp2p) messages. Otherwise if we are referring to the two types of message in the same sentence without proper qualification it can get rather confusing. This suggested edit goes in the line of simplification by removing the mention of libp2p messages, we send Filecoin blocks and messages over the network (without the container "message" noun, how libp2p sees them is beyond this spec).

4. The miner publishes the newly-mined block in the `/fil/blocks/` pubsub topic and the block message propagates to all nodes in the network (including the nodes that published the transactions included in this block).

Nodes must check that incoming transaction messages are valid, that is, that they have a valid signature. If the message is not valid it should be dropped and must not be forwarded.

The updated, hardened version of the GossipSub protocol includes a number of attack mitigation strategies. For instance, when a node receives an invalid message it assigns a negative _score_ to the sender peer. Peer scores are not shared with other nodes, but are rather kept locally by every peer for all other peers it is interacting with. If a peer's score drops below a threshold it is excluded from the scoring peer's mesh. We discuss more details on these settings in the GossipSub section. The full details can be found in the [GossipSub Specification](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/tree/master/pubsub/gossipsub).

NOTES:

> - _Fund Checking:_ It is important to note that the `mpool` logic is not checking whether there are enough funds in the account of the transaction message issuer. This is checked by the miner before including a transaction message in a block.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is accurate, need to double check the code. We may do some basic funds checking in the pool.

> - _Message Syncing:_ Transaction messages are sorted in the `mpool` of miners as they arrive according to cryptoeconomic rules followed by the miner and in order for the miner to compose the next block.

Reviewer: As discussed, I think we should drop the expression "message syncing" and reserve the _sync_ term only for blocks and in the context of consensus, not the pool.

Reviewer: Sounds good.
